翻译缓存管理器 (#1678)
cocos-creator/creator-docs: en/asset/cache-manager.md

# Cache Manager

> > Text: Santy-Wang, Xunyi

Author: ```suggestion
> Author: Santy-Wang, Xunyi
```

In the Web platforms, after resources are downloaded, the cache is managed by the browser, not the engine. <br
In some non-Web platforms, such as WeChat Mini Game, such platforms have a file system that can be used to cache some remote resources, but do not implement a caching mechanism for the resources. In this case, the engine needs to implement a set of caching mechanism to manage the resources downloaded from the network, including caching resources, clearing cached resources, querying cached resources and other features.

Starting from v2.4, Creator provides a cache manager on all platforms with file systems to add, delete, and check caches, which can be accessed by developers through `assetManager.cacheManager`.

## Resource downloading, caching and versioning

The logic of downloading resources by the engine is as follows:

> 1. determine whether the resource is in the game package, and if so, use it directly.

Reviewer: 这什么这 6 点把所有的句首单词首字母都改成小写了？

For the mini-game platform, once the cache space is full, all the resources that need to be downloaded cannot be saved and can only be used to download the resources saved in the temporary directory. And when quitting the mini-game, all temporary directories will be cleaned up, and when running the game again, these resources will be downloaded again, and so on and so forth.

> **Note**: the problem of file saving failure due to cache space exceeding the limit does not occur on WeChat Mini Game's **WeChat Developer Tools**, because WeChat Developer Tools does not limit the cache size, so testing the cache needs to be done in a real WeChat environment.

When the engine's **md5Cache** feature is enabled, the URL of the file will change with the content of the file, so that when a new version of the game is released, the resources of the old version will be naturally invalidated in the cache and only new resources can be requested from the server, which also achieves the effect of versioning.

### Uploading resources to a remote server

> If you need to upload resources to a remote server, please configure the Asset Bundle where the resources are located as a remote bundle. Next, let's take the WeChat mini-game as an example and look at the specific steps.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
To upload resources to a remote server, please configure the Asset Bundle where the resources are located as a remote bundle. Next, taking the WeChat mini-game as an example, and look at the specific steps.
```

> 1. Reasonably allocate resources, configure the resource folder that needs to be managed modularly as Asset Bundles, and check **Is Remote Bundle**, for details, please refer to the document [Configure Asset Bundle](./bundle.md#configuration).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
1. Reasonably allocate resources, configure the resource folder that needs to be managed modularly as Asset Bundles, and check **Is Remote Bundle**. For additional details, please refer to the [Configure Asset Bundle](./bundle.md#configuration) documentation.
```

> 1. Reasonably allocate resources, configure the resource folder that needs to be managed modularly as Asset Bundles, and check **Is Remote Bundle**, for details, please refer to the document [Configure Asset Bundle](./bundle.md#%E9%85%8D%E7%BD%AE%E6%96%B9%E6%B3%95).

Reviewer: 英文版的后缀不是这样子的，跟中文的不一样

### Uploading resources to a remote server

To upload resources to a remote server, please configure the Asset Bundle where the resources are located as a remote bundle. Next, taking the WeChat mini-game as an example, and look at the specific steps.

1. Reasonably allocate resources, configure the resource folder that needs to be managed modularly as Asset Bundles, and check **Is Remote Bundle**. For additional details, please refer to the [Configure Asset Bundle](./bundle.md#configuration) documentation.

    ![bundle_is_remote](./cache-manager/remote-bundle.png)

2. If the main bundle needs to be configured as a remote bundle, check **Main Bundle is Remote** in the **Build** panel.

3. Then check **MD5 Cache** in the **Build** panel, set **Resource Server Address**, and click **Build**. 

4. After the build is complete, upload the `remote` folder in the distribution directory to the server which is filled in the previous step.

5. Delete the `remote` folder from the local release bundle directory.

> > **Note**: when the WeChat Mini Game is in testing stage, the developer may not be able to deploy the project to the official server, then you need to test it on the local server, please open **Tools -> Details -> Local Settings** page in the menu bar of WeChat Developer Tools, and check the **Does not verify valid domain names, web-view (business domain names), TLS versions and HTTPS certificates** option.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
> **Note**: During the testing phase of WeChat Mini Games, developers may not be able to deploy the project to the official server, and need to test it on the local server. Please open **Tools -> Details -> Local Settings** page in the menu bar of WeChat DevTools, and check the **Does not verify valid domain names, web-view (business domain names), TLS versions and HTTPS certificates** option.
```

> 
> ![details](./cache-manager/details.png)

### Querying cache files

> The cache manager provides the ``getCache`` interface to query all cached resources, and developers can query the cache path by passing in the original path to the resource.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The cache manager provides the `getCache` interface to query all cached resources, and developers can query the cache path by passing in the original path of the resource.
```

});
```

### Querying temporary files

> When a resource is downloaded locally, it may be stored as a temporary file in a temporary directory. The cache manager provides the ``tempFiles`` interface to query all resources downloaded into the temporary directory, and developers can do so by passing in the original path of the resource.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When a resource is downloaded locally, it may be stored as a temporary file in a temporary directory. The cache manager provides the `tempFiles` interface to query all resources downloaded into the temporary directory, and developers can do so by passing in the original path of the resource.
```

});
```

## Caching resources

A number of parameters are provided in the cache manager to control the caching of resources:

- `cacheManager.cacheDir` -- controls the directory where the cached resources are stored.
- `cacheManager.cacheInterval` -- controls the period of caching a single resource, default 500 ms once.

> - `cacheManager.cacheEnabled` -- controls whether to cache the resource, default is cache. Alternatively, developers can override the global setting by specifying the optional parameter ``cacheEnabled``, e.g.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- `cacheManager.cacheEnabled` -- controls whether to cache the resource, default is cache. Alternatively, developers can override the global setting by specifying the optional parameter `cacheEnabled`. Example:
```

  ```typescript
  assetManager.loadRemote('http://example.com/background.jpg', {cacheEnabled: true}, callback);
  ```

### Clearing cache resources

If the cache resource exceeds the limit and the developer needs to clear the resource manually, use `removeCache`, `clearCache`, `clearLRU` provided by the cache manager `cc.assetManager.cacheManager` to clear the cache resource.

- `clearCache` -- clears all cache resources in the cache directory, please use with caution.
- `clearLRU` -- clears the older resources in the cache directory. The mini-game platform will automatically call `clearLRU` when the cache space is full.

> - ``removeCache`` -- clears a single cache resource. To use it, provide the original path of the resource, e.g.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- `removeCache` -- clears a single cache resource. To use it, provide the original path of the resource. Example:
```

> - ``removeCache`` -- clears a single cache resource. To use it, you need to provide the original path of the resource, e.g.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- ``removeCache`` -- clears a single cache resource. To use it, provide the original path of the resource, e.g.
```

  ```typescript
  assetManager.loadRemote('http://example.com/background.jpg', function (err, texture) {
      assetManager.cacheManager.removeCache(texture.nativeUrl);
  });
  ```

> When the developer upgrades the engine version, the cache resources left locally are still the same as those corresponding to the previous old version of the engine and are not automatically cleared. This may lead to problems such as errors in loading resources or rendering errors. There are two solutions.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When the developer upgrades the engine version, the cached resources left locally are still the resources corresponding to the previous old version of the engine and are not automatically cleared. This may lead to problems such as errors in loading or rendering of resources. There are two solutions:
```

> 1. Check the **MD5 Cache** option in the **Build** panel at build time, which will ensure that the latest version of resources is used.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Check the **MD5 Cache** option in the **Build** panel at build time, which will ensure that the latest version of resources are used.
```

> 2. Manually flush the previously cache resources.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
2. Manually clear the previously cached resources.
```

>     - Clear the cache with `cc.assetManager.cacheManager.clearCache()` on **real machine**.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    - Clear the cache with `cc.assetManager.cacheManager.clearCache()` on the **real device**.
```

>     - WeChat Little Tour in **WeChat Developer Tools** Click **Tools -> Clear Cache -> Clear All** in the menu bar to clear the cache.

Reviewer: 所有的 WeChat Developer Tools 都是 WeChat DevTools
